Are: Porform cryptographic hashing and secure password storage.

Experiment with hashing algorithm (MDS, SHA-256) and demonstrate Procle password the storage, stevege using hosting + sotting scripting in python or using

Theory: Password hasing is a techniques used to "or" string called "hosh value" into fixed length string calle USES 'MDS' OY 'SHA-28 the data "It mainly "SHA-256 for password protection because they transform password in to irreversible voluas.

To enhance security, Salting is used. A salt is a rondom value added to the pass word before hashing. Thes ensures that if two users have the same password, their will be different, preventing attacks like rainbow attack

Methodology:

Impact python libarious like hashlib and os. The hashlib Library is used to to implement the cryptographic hashing algorithm osed to generate such as MDS or SHA-256, while 'os' library is used to random salt.

2. We have done with experiment in two parts-Password hashing

1. With Salting

ii. Without Salting

3. With Salting:- It will add randomness into the hash and makes password hashing more secure as compare to normal password hashing.

i. Smilarly as in A stored-username is there.

in. Stored-hash in computed through user input, because storing is a bad practice. Plaintext password in a code is a

. A random solt is generated using "Os, random".

iv. The stored-hash= hash+Salt

v. The program ask for username & password

vi. The other login-hash is computed and mixed with this salt add randomness to hash.
vi. Then, if username stored-username & login-hash stored successful/unsuccessful

4. Without Salting:

i. A stored username is there stored username: "admin"

ii. The program/computer computes the 'stored-hash using "hashlib. Sha-256 (input)"Enter pass") encodet).

. Then, program ask for the username & password.

iv . It check/compares the stored-username and user input username and mainly compares the stored-hash and the login-hash.

v. If username stored Username and stored-hash login hash. Ls"login successfull"

else

Login Failed"

Future Scope:

Integration of password hashing system into real-world web applications (login/sigrup systems).

Use of hashing in blockchain and digital signature systems.

Project Idea!

1. Password strength Checker + Hasher

. Web-based Secure login System (Hashed passwords, Salting, login session Management).
