Aim: To stimulate basic tient Injection and Cross-site [xsa] attacks on DVMA and Helement input validation and sanitization techniques os counted nea

Theory:

Web Application Vulnerabilities

Application fail to distinguish user data & executable code

Poor inpot handling leads to security breaches

2. SQL Injection (Sqli)

↳ Inserting malicious Sol code into application queries.

Is Impact: Data theft, authentication by pass, database manipulation

Type: In-band, Blind & Union based

↳ Root causes: Direct concatenation of user

Input into sol quaries cross-site scripting [xss]

Cress-Site Scripting (xss] Defimation: Injection

Injection malicious scripting into web pages viewed by others

Impact: Session hijacking, credential theft & web defacement

Type: Replected & Stored xss

↳ Rest Cause: Insufficient output encoding

Methodology:

1. Installed and configured XAMPP on the local system

2. Opened the XAMPP control panel a start the Apache and MY SOL

3. Placed the test web application file inside the 'htdocs" folder of the XAMPP directory

4. Opened the web browser and accessed the application using

http:ll local host.

6. Navigated to the login page or input form available in the web application

7. Enter malicious input in the form field to test SOL injection. vulnerabilities observed the response of the application

Enter a simple script in the input field to test for cross-site scripting xss] vulnerability.

8.Observed that opplication accepted the malicious input when noValidation was applied

9. Modify the source code of the application to add input validation and sanotizotion techniques

10. Re-tested the same input again after applying the protection methods

11. Verified that the application no longer execute the malicious queries on scripts

Future Scope:

1. Implement advanced protection techniques such as prepared statement and parameterized queries. Security framework to reduce

2. Use web application sec

vulnerability in web application. 3. Deploy web application firewall (WAF) to detect and block malicious traffic.

Project Idea:

Secure Coding Analyzer (Tool that scans source codo).

DVWA Automation Script (Automatically tests DVWR vulnerabilities).
